                                  !Today (3.06)
                                 ===============

NOTE: If you are upgrading to this version from an older version and you wish
to include data from your old copy, you MUST join the data by running this
version of the program and using the Join option. This is because of some of
the event type codes have changed (most significantly Event is now E).

This is an extension of the original program for the PC, that was ported onto
the Arc by James Noad. Although the original Arc version was very good it did
have some draw-backs.

          -  It was not possible to select another date other than today.
             Although the program was designed for the current day, the
             original PC version did allow you to change the day.

          -  To add new events you had to use edit and put in all the codes
             for date, year, type and day yourself. Although this would be
             possible I thought that it would be better if the program
             could do it.

          -  The Arc version (although run from the desktop) was not fully
             multitasking and I wanted a multitasking version to make it 
             even easier to use with other programs (e.g. copy the data 
             onto a word-processor).

This new program has all of these features. The program has been completely revised since earlier versions, it is now quicker and conforms better to the
current Acorn style (by using the Toolbox). In order to run it  you must
install the Toolbox modules (included with !Today) onto your harddisc.

When !Today is run by double-clicking its icon in the filer window you get an
icon bar icon. The menu is obtained by clicking menu on this icon (or clicking
the menu button in any of the windows) and has the following items:

          -  Info                 Gives information on !Today.

          -  Save                 Allows you to save the contents of the scan
                                  window and the search window as text files.

          -  Open window          Allows you to open the windows used for
                                  !Today, these windows will be discussed in
                                  the relevant sections.

          -  Highlight own data   If selected, all events stored in the 'Own'
                                  data files will be highlighted by drawing in
                                  red.

          -  Save Options         Saves the current state of the Highlight own
                                  data menu item and the destination file for
                                  new events in the add window.

          -  Quit                 Select to Quit the program.

You can also open the scan window by selecting the icon bar icon and the search window can be opened by using adjust on the icon bar icon.

I would advise that before you start adding or editing the events data, you
make a backup of the !Today program. Although it is unlikely the program could
(possibly) corrupt the data if there is an unforseen bug.

Scan Window
-----------

The scan window allows you to find all events occuring on a specified date.
The window has a number of icons across the top. These allow you to specify the
day of the month and the month to scan. Once this is set you select the Scan
button to perform the scan. This will then list all of the events in
chronological order.

If instead you select the Scan Today button, the date icons will be reset to
the current date and the scan will be performed.

The buttons to the right of the window allow you
  - open the search window
  - open the add window
  - open the join window
  - load the own file and the month file for the window into a text editor

If you double click with select on a word in one of the events, the search
window will be opened and a search will be performed on that word. The other
options (case sensitive, range, etc) will not be changed so you can make more
specific searches for a range of words.

If you double click with adjust, the edit window will be opened for that event
(see the section on editing).


Search Window
-------------

To perform a search you must first setup the search string. This can be
anything that could be in the text. The program will then scan through all the
files for any event with  your search string in it. You can embed magic characters
in the search string and these fall into the following categories

1) Single characters
  '\.'       - Match any character
  '\\'       - Match a '\' character
  '\['       - Match a '[' character
  '\]'       - Match a ']' character
  '\-'       - Match a '-' character

2) General single characters
  '\a','\A'  - Match any alphanumeric character
  '\c','\C'  - Match any alphabetic character
  '\d','\D'  - Match any digit
  '\p','\P'  - Match any punctuation character
  
3) Multicharacters
   '\*'       - Match 0 or more characters (of any type)
   
4) Specified multicharacters
  '\~C'      - Match any character other than C 
  '\&C'      - Match 0 or more of character C
  '\^C'      - Match 1 or more of character C

NOTE: For this category C can be one of
    i) A single character (e.g. '\~A' matches anything except the character 'A')
   ii) Any magic character from categories 1 or 2 (e.g. '\&\D' matches 0 or more digits)
  iii) A set as defined below  

5) A set which is delimited by '[' and ']' (note these are the only occurences 
   of '[' and ']' allowed) and may contain any of the following (with no 
   separating characters)
     i) Any characters or magic characters from 1) or 2) above
    ii) Ranges between two characters C and D (inclusive) defined by C'-'D
        where C and D are either characters or magic characters from 1)
   (eg '[\da-f\p]' would match digits, a, b, c, d, e, f and punctuation)


You can select whether the search is case sensitive (Whether an 'a' is the same 
as an 'A') and you run it by clicking on the yellow icon. All references will 
then appear in the scan window.

The event types popup menu allows you to select which types of events are to be
included in the search. Any type that is unselected will be ignored.

The range facility will allow you to ignore events that are outside a range
that is specified. To make this facility work you have to select the 'Use Range'
icon.

There is a maximum of 500, going above this limit will cause the search to be
aborted. But if you are being specific enough these will not occur.

The three buttons to the right of the window allow you to open the scan, add
and join windows.

Double clicking with select on an event will scan for all events on the same
month and day and open the scan window. If you double click with adjust, the
edit window will be opened for that event (see the section on editing).


Adding
------

This allows you to add events to the files easily. Opening the window (if it is
not already open) will copy the month and day from the scan window, making it
easy to add new events to a day. The date is set using the writeable icon for
the day and the year and the popup menu for the month. If the year is negative
(in the range -1 to -999) then it is taken as being BC. The day popup menu is
used to select the special day. Having a special day allows you to have dates
which will only show on a certain day. For instance if you were to have 7 dates
with the same event but with a special day of Sunday, the event would only come
up if the date selected was a sunday. This allows you to put dates in that are
on the first sunday of a month, or on specific days like Fathers day.

The type is set using the popup menu and the 'Own File' and 'Month File' icons
allow you to set which file it will be added to.

The text is typed into the writeable icons at the bottom of the window. The text can be cleared by using the Clear Text button. The event is saved to the
file by using the Add Event button. If the event is not on a special day, the
text is cleared. It is preserved for special days so that it can be saved with
a different date (makes it easy to create events on (say) the first Monday of a
month).

The scan and search windows will be updated to include the new event if it
matches the settings used for the previous scan or search.


Editing
-------

The edit window can be opened by double clicking on an event with the adjust button. The window looks the same as the Add window except the Add button has been replaced by a Delete button and an Edit button. Choosing delete will delete the old event from the data. Edit will delete the old event and save the new event (as with the add). This allows you to change details of an event (typically spelling mistakes and changing the event type) or move the event from the own file to the relevant month file.

As with the add, the scan and search windows are updated after an edit to
reflect the new data. If an event is deleted it is removed from the windows and
if an event is added, the new data is compared against the previous scan/search
to see if it is a match.


Join/Sort Data
--------------

The window allows you to combine data from another copy of !Today. This is done
by dragging another copy of !Today to the window and then selecting the Join
Data button.

The routine then goes through each data file loading the events from each copy.
The data is then search through for any duplicates. The duplicate check is done
by comparing the words in the two text strings (all punctuation is ignored).
The first check is to see whether or not one string contains initials and the
other names. The rules used for this are that initials are always upper case
and names are always uppercase first letter followed by lower case letters. If
a sequence of initials is found to match in both strings, e.g.
  U S A  and USA
they will be treated as matches. Alternatively if initials are found to match
names in the other string, the initials will be replaced by the names and will
be treated as matches (in this case though both strings must have a matching
surname). This means that all of the strings below will match
    J W Miskin
    JWMiskin
    James W Miskin
    J William Miskin
    James William Miskin

Once names and initials have been matches, words are checked against a list of
ignorable words which have little information content (eg and, is, was, ...).
Then the two strings will be compared to see whether all of the remaining words
from one or other string are in the other string (in any order), when this compare is done a thesaurus is used to match words with the same meaning. Then
the string with 'leftover' words will be kept and the other will be deleted.
For instance the two strings
             'James Miskin writes !Today'
and
             'James Miskin writes the excellent !Today program'
would be counted as the same and the first one would be deleted. There are also
checks to see the date is correct, but if an event with an unknown year is
matched to another event with a known year they are taken to be the same and in
the known year. Additionally if an event with type Unknown, Event or Reminder
matches to more specific event type (eg Birthday) they are taken to have the
more specific type.

The events are then sorted into order (as chosen by the user in the Join/Sort
window) before being saved again. There are two possible orders to choose from,
eventtype and then date or duplicate type and date. The first one looks better
for final data files. The second type is useful for finding duplicates. It
saves the events in 3 groups, the first has all events with unknown dates, the
second has all events occuring on exactly the same date as another event (and
so could be duplicates of the same data) and the third has all the other events.

You can also select the Sort Data icon to check for any duplicates and to sort the data without loading from another copy of !Today.

Also when joining data from another copy of !Today, it is checked to see if any new event types have been defined and these are also copied. The way this is done is that the new types are checked against the old types, if the new name is the same as an old name but the letters are different, both letters are marked as unknown. If the new name has the same letter but a different name to another type, the letters are marked as unknown. Then the letters are filled in by first looking for the first letter of the name that is not already used as an event letter. If this does not assign letters to all of the types, they are given the first free available letter. This should all be transparent to the user, but will preserve all of the type data.

The various word lists (ignore words, replace words, verb endings and the thesaurus) will also be copied across (removing duplicates at the same time).


Parsing
-------

When any records are loaded (for scanning, searching and for the join/sort) the
following parsing rules are used.
  - Hard spaces are replaced ny normal spaces.
  - All initials for the form A.B.C. are replaced by ABC.
  - Quote marks are replaced to use a standard form of only using ”• and ‘
  - The following words are replaced
          'USA','UNITED STATES OF AMERICA','UNITED STATES' -> 'US'
          '&' -> 'and'
          'FIRST' -> '1st'
          'TELEVISION' -> 'TV'
          'DRAMATIST' -> 'playwright'

This is done to maintain a consistent style between all authors of new data. It
also has the advantage that it makes the join/sort routine much more efficient
at finding duplicate events.

Although this may look like overkill, it adds very little extra time to the
processing and the search facility is still quicker than the earlier versions
of the program.


Editing
-------

You can edit the text files in a text editor providing that each line is followed by a newline character. The format for an item is as follows:-

 Column 1: The event type which can be S for special dates in history,
                                       R for a reminder
                                       B for birthdays,
                                       D for a death,
                                       W for a war,
                                       I for a discovery.


 Cols 2-5: Month and day as MMDD with leading zeros.  Zeros
           for either month or day cause ALL months or days
           to match when being scanned.  For example  0001
           would match the first of every month while 0400
           would match every day of April.

 Cols 6-9: The full year of the event as four digits.
           May be left blank for an unknown year. May also be -ve for BC dates.

Column 10: A special processing flag.  Values may be:
           -SPACE for no special processing.
           -C to continue a message from the previous line.
            Note, that you MUST repeat the date fields.
           -DAY-OF-WEEK DIGIT where 1=Sunday ... 7=Saturday
            This will cause the message to display only if the
            date falls on a certain day of the week.  Look in
            the November file for US voting day examples.
            
     Rest: Text followed by a newline character.

If you want to add items with a text editor you must make sure the format is
correct because the program will not check for you (it takes too much time when
it has a search to perform and there is a perfectly good date adding function
built in).


Updates
-------

     2.00 (8-Jun-91) The original multitasking basic version. Solved the
          problems of the original but was very slow. 

     2.01 (16-Jun-91) Wrote it in RISC code. Much faster but there was a
          bug so any continued day did not work. Added a section that will
          break lines if they go above 62 characters in length. This makes
          it much more readable.

     2.02 (18-Jun-91) Removed the bug in the code (Now the continue codes
          are used properly. 

     2.04 (21-Jun-91) Started adding the search option to make it easier
          to find events about specific items.

     2.05 (25-Jun-91) Sorted out a bug in the code so now the scam window shows
          data correctly. Also changed my mind about the display. Now any event
          without a specified year has a '????' icon instead of a year. Before
          it was confusing and looked like a continuation of the previous event.

     2.06 (31-Jun-91) Added the type facility to the search to make it
          easier to specify events. Also added print to the search and
          the scan windows. 

     2.07 (4-Jul-91) Added the range facility to the search. It now  will
          allow you to specify pretty accurately what you want so you
          minimize the events that you get.

     2.08 (9-Jul-91) Tidied the code so it ran faster (and was shorter).
          This has allowed me to make the maximum number of events 80 and
          increase the data it can handle for a search to 9000 bytes.

     2.09 (25-May-92) Gave it an icon-bar icon and a menu with quit. Now you
          cannot quit by closing the windows. Tidied up the WIMP interface
          and made it more user friendly. Also cured a couple of bugs in the
          save routines (one that wouldn't allow saving to the month file
          and one that caused the event type to be saved wrongly). Increased
          the maximum events to 100 and made it force the first letter of a
          string to uppercase when it is displayed in the scan window or the
          search window.

     2.10 (19-Aug-94) Thanks to Charlie Alford, a few bug fixes and
          improvements have been made. Buffer overflow errors no longer
          happen when !Today is run. Also the maximum ammount of text for
          one day has been increased to 8K and the maximum for a scan to
          more than 30K. Also the file handling has been tidied up and made
          a little less fussy about the way a file is saved.

     2.11 (13-Apr-95) Another buffer overflow problem fixed when adding
          dates to October, Novenmber or December. New data files from
          Charlie Alford added.
          
     2.12 (6-Jul-96) Fixed problem with case sensitive icon in search window.
          Fixed background colours of text on RiscPC. Fixed loaders to cope
          with blank lines in the data files. Added a new event type of death.
          Fixed bug in code for searching in a range. Added the Scan Today
          option.

     2.13 (24-Jul-96) Put code to justify the text in the scan window and the
          Search window when outline fonts are used on a RiscPC. Widened icons
          for dates in scan and search windows because it looked too tight with
          fonts on a RiscPC. Shrunk the code lots by altering the way windows
          are created. Got scan/search windows to alter size to fit screen.
          Put code to allow saving of scan and search windows. Got caret to
          move into first icon when opening search window. Got menu to stay
          open when adjust used. Added highlights of events in own file. Made
          search code match a blank string to nothing and not everything.

     2.14 (6-Jan-97) Added the JoinSort utility. Added AIF header to make
          StrongARM compliant (old format has been deprecated). Incorporated
          more data from users.

     3.00 (2-Apr-97) Completely new version of the program. Now written in C
          and using the Toolbox so it should be easier to debug/add new
          features. Added a toolbar to the scan window and the search window.
          Improved the join/sort routines and added the string parsing code to
          the load routines. Added two new event types, War and Discovery.

     3.01 (8-Apr-97) Made opening add window set the caret in first icon.
          Removed couple of modules from Run file which are not used. Made
          program report error if you tried to scan without specifying a day of
          the month. Made opening the add window take the date from the scan
          window if the add window is not already open. Added save options menu
          item to scan menu.

     3.02 (29-Apr-1997) Made the parsing routine remove trailing full stops
          (maintains a consistant style). Put in keyboard short cuts to open
          windows. Now adds any new events to the correct point in the data and
          not at the end of the relevant file. Made double clicking on word in
          scan window search for that word. Added the facility to edit and
          delete events. Fixed a bug in the justification of strings in the
          scan and search windows (it didn't wrap if the last word of the
          string didn't fit). Made the scan and search windows update after an
          add or edit performed. Made the Join routine look for new event types
          in the other copy of !Today. Added buttons to the scan and search
          windows to allow other windows to be opened easily.

     3.03 (11-Jun-1997) Added a button to the scan window to open the data
          files for the window into a text editor.

     3.04 (31-Aug-1997) When an add is done, the new event is checked against
          the search and scan windows. I have made sure this is done
          transparently (suppressing a message if there is not enough free
          memory for the record to be added to the search). I have made the
          join/sort routines make sure that all events are put into the correct
          month files (unless they are in the own file) instead of just sorting
          one month file at a time. Tidied up the event types copying when a
          join is done, now it makes sure that all event types are copied but
          that event letters are not duplicated.

     3.05 (24-Sep-1997) Added more words to be replaced when checking for
          duplicates. Made the word replacing get the case of the first letter
          correct by copying the case if the first letter to be replaced.
          Added option to choose how data is to be sorted when doing a
          Join/Sort. Made the duplicate checking code match initials and names.
          Added a thesaurus to be used when looking for duplicates. Speeded up
          the code to sort events into the correct month files.
          
     3.06 (11-Apr-1998) Added magic characters to the search string. 
          Incorporated more data from users.

If you want to tell me about anys bugs or suggestions you can contact me by mail at

           James Miskin
           Selwyn College
           Cambridge
           CB3 9DQ

or by email at    
  
           jwm1003@mrao.cam.ac.uk

                 
                 